My name is Heather Dickson.
I'm the principal at Marshview
Middle School.
And today I wanted to talk about how we
looked at schoolwide literacy practices.
I have two examples today.
One was with our science fair
when we had our science fair
set up in the gymnasium,
the Ela teachers went around
to the different booths
and the different projects
to talk to the kids and assess
their speaking and listening outcomes.
It was amazing to hear some of the stories
from the Ela teachers as they went
to students who had a deep passion
and enthusiasm,
enthusiasm for science.
And one of the teachers reported
that they stopped by a project
and spoke to one of our students
who was so vibrant, he was willing to
just talk about his entire project,
and it was something that she didn't
get to see in her Ela classroom.
The other
example I have is our school wide lit
Com event.
So students in grade five through eight
were responsible for reading a book.
It was presented science fair style,
but everyone in the building
was responsible for a book report.
Essentially,
they had it out on poster boards.
We invited the community in.
But for that one month, everybody in
our building was talking about reading.
We were talking about books.
We were talking about literacy.
And there was definitely
the social pressure there,
for students to be reading a book,
to be talking about books.
We had the students visit each booth
and they filled out a bingo form.
They also, created a list of books
that they wanted to read, that
then we communicated with the parents
and said, they're coming home with a list.
You know, you can foster a love
of reading at home as well.
So tips and tricks that I
would give
if you are looking at this in your school
or about,
boosting your school wide literacy,
it's really looking at that
cross-curricular piece, having the Ela
teachers be able to look at different
outcomes in the speaking and listening,
in different writing
across the subject areas.
I can't say enough
about the success of Lit Con.
If really created an entire buzz
throughout our school.
We dedicated four afternoons
where the students could be working on
their projects.
We had the art room open,
there was a group in the computer lab.
They could work in their classroom,
but really it was four afternoons
that they were dedicated
to, you know, the project completion.
So I was just checking in with the kids
throughout the time to make sure that
they were on track.